## Udemy - Angular 2 The Complete Guide

### Section 1: Getting Started

**Install Angular CLI via NPM:**

`sudo npm install -g @angular/cli`

**Creating a new project**

`ng new {name of your new project}`

> Holy shit - it takes _forever_ to generate a new app.

Once the new app is finshed installing, start the server to make sure it all worked:

`ng serve`

That bundles the app using Webpack and starts a local server running on port 4200 (localhost:4200). This takes a while too.

**Editing our new project**

We can ignore most of the files/folders generated by `angular-cli`. We will work primarily in the `/src` folder.

`index.html` serves our SPA. We don't need to edit it at all - we'll work in `/src/app`.

**app.component.ts**
We build our Angular applications out of components.  The `app.component` is the one component we define that loads on initialpage load.

**ngModel is ... different**

`app.component.ts` looks like this:

```TypeScript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        templateUrl: './app.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
    })
    export class AppComponent {
        name = '';
    }
```

See the `export class Appcomponent` bit? the `name` property (variable?) in there is bound to the view (like $scope does in Angular 1).  Then, in `app.component.html` we do:

```html
    <input type="text" [(ngModel)]="name">
    <p>{{ name }}</p>
```

The new view syntax for ngModel = `[(ngModel)]="bound-variable"`

**What hasn't changed?**

1.  Templates, DataBinding and Directives still exist.
2.  Services and Dependency still exist.
3.  Routing is still a thing.
4.  Pipes (for transforming template output) still exist

**What's new?**

1.  Observables

**Decorators**

Decorators make Angular 2 components _components_. Without them, they're nothing.

All components need exactly 1 template. Template is controlled by the TS code in our class.

```TypeScript
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',  // our new html element
        templateUrl: './app-root.component.html',  // our template file
        styleUrls: []          // this component's css
    })
```

**TypeScript**

More features than vanilla JS (e.g. Types, Classes, Interfaces, ...).

**Boostrapping**

`/src/main.ts` is run first and bootstraps our main module, AppModule:

```TypeScript
    import { enableProdMode } from '@angular/core';
    import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';

    import { AppModule } from './app/app.module';
    import { environment } from './environments/environment';

    if (environment.production) {
      enableProdMode();
    }

    platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);
```

In the last line, the `bootstrapModule()` method is passed one argument: the `AppModule` imported in the 4th line from `./app/app.module.ts`.

Looking at `app.module.ts`, notice the `bootstrap: [AppComponent]` array in the decorator - this is where the circle closes: we reference our appComponent (`./app/app.component.ts`).

So it all works like this:

1.  `main.ts` loads first bootstrapping our main application, passing our `app.module.ts` module as an argument
2.  in `app.module.ts` we tell Angular to bootstrap our `appComponent` component.
3.  Angular loads `appComponent` which references a `app-root` selector, and
4.  now Angular can handle `app-root` in `index.html`, inserting `appComponent` in place of the directive.

#### Components

Key feature. We'll compose the whole application from components we'll create.

We start with our appComponent - the root component. On one hand it's a normal Angular component; on the other hand it's special because it's our root component.  We'll later add additional components to this one. Their selectors will not be added to our `index.html` file; instead they'll be added to `app/app.component.html`.

**A component is a TypsScript class**. Angular is able to instantiate it - to create objects based on this "blueprint".

When making our own components, we'll begin by naming and exporting it (because we need to _import_ it elsewhere):

```TypeScript
    export class ServerComponent {

    }
```

That's a normal TypeScript class, named "ServerComponent". But it doesn't do anything - it needs more information: a **decorator** tells Angular this is a component. We'll use the Component decorator, which we need to import before we can use:

```TypeScript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core'    // import Component from Angular core

    @Component({                                 // init Component, which takes a config object
        selector: 'app-server',                  // html element
        templateUrl: './server.component.html'   // template
    })
    export class ServerComponent {

    }
```

Before we can use this component, we need to update our `app.module.ts`. Angular uses components to build we pages, and uses modules to bundle pieces (components, etc) into packages. What does `appModule` do? It's a collection of our app's features. We need to register our new `app-server` component in `appModule` before we can use it. Add an `import` statement and include the component's name in the `declarations` property of NgModule's config object:

```TypeScript
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
    import { HttpModule } from '@angular/http';

    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
    import { ServerComponent } from './server/server.component';

    @NgModule({
        declarations: [
            AppComponent,
            ServerComponent
        ],
        imports: [
            BrowserModule,
            FormsModule,
            HttpModule
        ],
        providers: [],
        bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

We can also create components with the CLI. Say we wanted our `app-server` component nested inside a `servers` component.

```
    ng generate component servers
```

(shorthand for the same)

```
    ng g c servers
```

The `generate` command creates all the files we need, namsepaced the proper way ('servers.component.ts'), in a folder named 'servers', AND updates `app.module.ts`.

**Inline Templates**

Components like `servers.component.ts` **need** to reference a template (just like Angular 1 directives). There are times when you can omit the selector, and you don't need to have styles - but **templates have to be present**.

The template can be either and external file or inline, and the sytax is the same as Angular 1: `template` vs `templateUrl`. We could re-write our `servers.component.ts` like this:

```TypeScript
    import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

    @Component({
      selector: 'app-servers',
      template: '<app-server></app-server><app-server></app-server>',
      styleUrls: ['./servers.component.css']
    })
    export class ServersComponent implements OnInit {

      constructor() { }

      ngOnInit() {
      }

    }
```

**Styling**

You can have only 1 template; you can have multiple stylesheets.

Since we are loading Bootstrap, we can just add CSS classes to the HTML in our templates:

```html
    <div class="container">
        <div class="row">
            <div class="col-xs-12">
                <h3>I'm in the App Component</h3>
                <hr>
                <app-servers></app-servers>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
```

But we also have this line in our `app.component.ts` @Component decorator:

```TypeScript
    styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
```

That is an array of separate external stylesheets, all of which get applied to this component only. Edit `app.component.css` just like you would any normal CSS file.

You can also write _inline_ CSS using a `styles` property which takes an array of strings:

```TypeScript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';

    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      templateUrl: './app.component.html',
      // styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
      styles: [`
        h3 {
            color: dodgerblue;
        }
      `]
    })
    export class AppComponent {

    }
```

**Selectors**

Just like in CSS, our Angular selectors can reference different DOM things. In our component.ts files, we can select by any of the following:

1.  an element:
    `selector: 'app-servers'`
2.  an element's attribute:
    `selector: '[app-servers]'`
3.  an elements class:
    `selector: '.app-servers'`

**BUT** selecting by ID will **NOT** work.

### Assignment 1
1.  Create 2 new components, one manually and one using the CLI: WarningAlter and SuccessAlert
2.  Output them beneath each other
3.  make sure they have some appropriate text
4.  Style the components appropriately, one inline and one w/external stylesheet


#### String Interpolation

One-way binding, from model to view, inside `{{ doubleCurlyBraces }}`. Anything that is a string or can be converted to a string can be used in string interpolation. A string, a number, or a method that returns a string. Ex:

```TypeScript
    export class ServerComponent {
        serverId: number = 10;            // converts to string
        serverStatus: string = 'offline'; // is a string

        getServerStatus() {
            return this.serverStatus;     // returns a string
        }
    }
```

Used in template like this:

```html
    <p>{{ 'Server' }} with ID {{ serverId }} is {{ getServerStatus() }}</p>
```

#### Property Binding

We wrap a DOM attribute in `[square brackets]` to indicate to Angular that we're using **property binding**. That we want to dynamicaly bind some property. The property is bound to the value of some expression, which is wrapped in quotes (only! - no double curly braces!).  For ex:

```html
    <button class="btn btn-primary" [disabled]="!allowNewServer">Add Server</button>
```

`[disabled]="!allowNewServer"` is a TypeScript expression!  Here, we are setting the `disabled` attribute depending on the value of `allowNewServer`, which is a value in our class:

```TypeScript
    export class ServersComponent implements OnInit {

        allowNewServer = false;   // starts 'false'

        constructor() {

            setTimeout( () => {
                this.allowNewServer = true;  // 'true' after 2 secs
                } , 2000)

        }

    }
```

#### Property Binding vs String Interpolation

String interpolation:

```html
    <p>{{ allowNewServer }}</p>
```

Property binding:

```html
    <p [innerText]="allowNewServer"></p>
```

When should you use one or the other? If you just want to output some text, use string interpolation. If you want to change some property of a HTML element, directive or component, use property binding.

Don't mix property binding and string interpolation.

#### Event Binding

`(parenthesis)` are the signal that we're using event binding.  You use parens with the event name inside, and then the code you want to execute inside "quotes":

```html
    <button class="btn btn-primary"
            [disabled]="!allowNewServer"
            (click)="onCreateServer()">
        Add Server
    </button>
```

How do you know to which Properties or Events of HTML Elements you may bind? You can basically bind to all Properties and Events - a good idea is to `console.log()` the element you're interested in to see which properties and events it offers.

**Important:** For events, you don't bind to `onclick` but only to `click` (=> (click)).

MDN offers nice lists of all properties and events of the element you're interested in. Googling for `YOUR_ELEMENT properties`  or `YOUR_ELEMENT events`  should yield nice results.

We can access DOM events using the reserved keyword `$event`:

```html
    <input type="text"
            class="form-control"
            (input)="onUpdateServerName($event)">
    <p>{{ serverName }}</p>
```

That says, on `(input)` fire `onUpdateServerName()` method, passing in the `$event` object.  Then we can access that event in a class method:

```TypeScript
    serverName = '';

    onUpdateServerName(event: Event) {
        this.serverName = (<HTMLInputElement>event.target).value;
    }
```

What's up with that `(<HTMLInputElement>event.target).value;`?  Why isn't it just `event.target.value;`?  We have to specifically **cast** this to type: Input Element. We tell TS that we know the type of the HTML element of this event is a HTML input element.

#### Two-Way Databinding

Two-way binding means `ngModel`. We wrap the HTML attribute in square brackets AND parenthesis, and set it equal to something (variable, etc) in our class. Looks like this:

```html
    <input type="text"
        class="form-control"
        [(ngModel)]="serverName">
    <p>{{ serverName }}</p>
```

Important: For Two-Way-Binding to work, you need to enable the `ngModel` directive. This is done by adding the `FormsModule` to the `imports[]` array in the AppModule.

You then also need to add the import from `@angular/forms` in the app.module.ts file:

```TypeScript
    import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
```

#### Directives:

Directives are instruction in the DOM. Component selectors are also instructions in the DOM. "Angular please add out component in this place." Components are directives with templates. Directives are usually declared in the attribute style:

TypeScript:

```html
    <p appTurnGreen>Receives a green background!</p>
```

```TypeScript
    @Directive({
        selector: '[appTurnGreen]'
    })
    export class TurnGreenDirective {
        ...
    }
```

**Useful Built-in Directives**

Use **NgIf** to conditionally show content.

```html
    <p *ngIf="expression">Server was created, server name is {{ serverName }}</p>
```

The `*` is important. `*ngIf` is a _structural_ directive. Meaning it changes the structure of the DOM. `expression` must evaluate to `true` or `false`.

We can add `else` clauses too. The `else` content to show is wrapped in `<ng-template>` and 'tagged' with a **local reference** - a _marker_ starting with the `#`:

```html
    <p *ngIf="serverCreated; else noServer">Server was created, server is {{ serverName }}</p>
    <ng-template #noServer>
        <p>No server was created!</p>
    </ng-template>
```

### Constructor

>A constructor is just a built-in method that each class has, which is called when each component is created.

#### Styling Elements Dynamically with ngStyle

These look like normal html attributes without the `*`. Say we want to change the color of an element depending on the status of some variable. For example, depending on the `serverStatus`. We add the **ngStyle** property inline with our html. We use **property binding** with [square brackets] around the property name. `[ngStyle]` expects to get a JavaScript object:

```html
    <p [ngStyle]="{'background-color': getColor()}">{{ 'Server' }} with ID {{ serverId }} is {{ getServerStatus() }}</p>
```

Add the method in our component class:

```TypeScript
    getColor() {
        return this.serverStatus === 'online' ? 'green' : 'red';
    }
```

### Applying CSS Classes Dynamically with ngClass

`ngClass` allows us to dynamically add/remove CSS classes.  Like `ngStyle`, `ngClass` also only works as intended using property binding (wrap it in [square brackets]) and by giving it a JavaScript object. The object consists of key-values pairs. The keys are the CSS class names, the values are the conditions that determine whether the class should be attached or not.

```html
    <p [ngStyle]="{'background-color': getColor()}"
       [ngClass]="{online: serverStatus === 'online'}">
            {{ 'Server' }} with ID {{ serverId }} is {{ getServerStatus() }}
    </p>
```

### Outputting Lists with ngFor

`ngFor` loops over collections.

```html
    <app-server *ngFor="let server of servers"></app-server>
```

```TypeScript
    servers = ['Testserver', 'Testserver 2'];  // array of servers to ngFor loop over

    /* ... snip ... */

    onCreateServer() {
        this.serverCreated = true;
        this.servers.push(this.serverName);  // push new server to array
        this.serverCreationStatus = `Server was created! Name is ${this.serverName}`;
    }
```

## Planning our Project Application

We're going to build a Shopping List / Recipe Book application.  Our plan will look like this. Components, Features and Model (data):

```
                      Root Component
                            |
                     Header Component
                            |
              /------------------------------------\
             |                                     |
   Shopping List Feature                  Recipe Book Feature
             |                                     |
  Shopping List Component                   Recipe Component
             |                                     |
  Shopping List Component                Recipe List Component
             |                                     |
Shopping List Edit Component             Recipe Item Component
             |                                     |
      Ingredient Model                   Recipe Detail Component
                                                   |
                                              Recipe Model
```

**TypeScript shortcut** when working with constructors within classes. You might define a model like this:

```TypeScript
  export class Ingredient {

    public name   : string;
    public amount : number;

    constructor(name: string, amount: number) {
      this.name   = name;
      this.amount = amount;
    }

}
```

That pattern is so common that TypeScript gives us this shortcut which does the same thing:

```TypeScript
export class Ingredient {

  constructor(public name: string, public amount: number) {
  }

}
```

## Understanding Angular Error Messages

Blah blah - use the dev tool console and the debugger with sourcemaps.

Third technique: Augury Chrome extension. It installs into Chrome's dev tools and lets us inspect and analyze Angular 2 apps.

## Understanding Components and Databinding

#### Splitting Apps Into Components

The main issue is how to pass data between components. In the _basics_ section, we learned about property and event binding. We kind of passed data to an element (for example that some element should be disabled if a property is true). The same with event binding - when we clicked a button, the button emitted an event (data) to which we were able to listen. We need this sort of behavior with our own components - we need to be able to send data into a component or receive data from components.

Angular gives us great tools to implement this. We can use
1.  Native Properties and Events of HTML Elements
2.  Custom properties and events on Directives
3.  Custom properties and events on our own Components. We can emit our own events.

**Property Binding**

Hopefully I can explain this ... Say we have two components, a parent `app.component` and a child `server-element-component`, where we use the child inside the parent `app.component.html`:

```html
  <div class="col-xs-12">
    <app-server-element
      *ngFor="let serverElement of serverElements">
    </app-server-element>
  </div>
```

Note that we are trying to loop over some array `serverElements`. That's a property of our parent `app.component.ts`:

```TypeScript
  import { Component } from '@angular/core';

  @Component({
    selector: 'app-root',
    templateUrl: './app.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
  })
  export class AppComponent {

    serverElements = [
      {type: 'server', name: 'TestServer', content: 'Just a test'}
    ];

  }
```

The goal: loop over the `serverElements` array in `app.component.ts` passing each element into our `<app-server-element>` child component.

The `app-server-element` component has a `element` property and looks like this:

```TypeScript
  import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

  @Component({
    selector: 'app-server-element',
    templateUrl: './server-element.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['./server-element.component.css']
  })
  export class ServerElementComponent implements OnInit {

    // TYPE DEFINITION for the `element` property we want to use in
    // our template. Everything after the `:` defines the type.
    // `element` is an object with 3 properties:
    element: {type: string, name: string, content: string};

    constructor() { }

    ngOnInit() {
    }

  }
```

> Note: the **type definition** for `element` follows the colon. That's not _assignment_, that's a TypeScript type definition. `element` is an _object_ because of the curly braces. And the object has three properties, the value of each property is of type `string`.

What we need to do is bind the values from `app.component.ts`'s `serverElements` array to attributes in the `<app-server-element>` template. We add the attribute in `app.component.html` template using Angular **property binding**:

```html
  <app-server-element
    *ngFor="let serverElement of serverElements"
    [element]="serverElement">  <!-- <- SEE HERE! -->
  </app-server-element>
```

Here we are saying, insert one `<app-server-element>` component for each element in the `serverElements` array, passing `"serverElement"` into bound attribute `[element]`.

Since each element in the `serverElements` array is an object, we access its properties in the `<app-server-element>` template thus:

```html
  <div class="panel panel-default">
    <div class="panel-heading">{{ element.name }}</div>
    <div class="panel-body">
      <p>
        <strong *ngIf="element.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ element.content }}</strong>
        <em *ngIf="element.type === 'blueprint'">{{ element.content }}</em>
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
```

Note the interpolated `element.name`, `element.type`, and `element.content`  properties - those come from the object we passed in from `app.component.html` via **property binding**.

But that's not enough. By default, Angular firewalls component properties from each other. We need to add a _decorator_ to `server-element-component.ts` to permit receiving the object that we try to pass in via property binding. We add the `@Input` decorator after importing it from `@angularCore`:

```TypeScript
  import { Component, OnInit, Input } from '@angular/core';

  @Component({
    selector: 'app-server-element',
    templateUrl: './server-element.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['./server-element.component.css']
  })
  export class ServerElementComponent implements OnInit {

    // Note the `@Input` decorator - this lets us pass properties in
    // to this component from parent components
    @Input() element: {type: string, name: string, content: string};

    constructor() { }

    ngOnInit() {
    }

  }
```

The `@Import()` decorator is crucial!

#### Aliases

Sometimes you don't want to use the same property outside the component as inside the component.  You can assign an **alias**. We might want to call the attribute `[srvElement]` instead of `[element]` in the `app.component.html` template:

```html
  <app-server-element
    *ngFor="let serverElement of serverElements"
    [srvElement]="serverElement">
  </app-server-element>
```

But `srvElement` doesn't exist in `server-element.component.ts`. We **alias** it by passing the **alias** property name to the `@input` decorator:

```TypeScript
  @Input('srvElement') element: {type: string, name: string, content: string};
```

#### Binding To Custom Events

Property binding allows us to pass data into child components from parents. Event emitting is the opposite: pushing data from child components up to parents.

To begin with, say we have this `app.component.html` template:

```html
  <div class="container">
    <app-cockpit></app-cockpit>
    ...
  </div>
```

And we want to listen for events on `<app-cockpit>`. We can do it the same way we listened for 'click' events on a button. We have two events, so we add two listeners:

```html
  <div class="container">
    <app-cockpit
      (serverCreated)="onServerAdded($event)"
      (blueprintCreated)="onBlueprintAdded($event)">
    </app-cockpit>
    ...
  </div>
```

Now in `app.component.ts` our methods expect to receive data from each listener's `$event` - we'll call them `serverData` and `blueprintData` and define their type:

```TypeScript
  export class AppComponent {

    serverElements = [{type: 'server', name: 'TestServer', content: 'Just a test'}];

    onServerAdded(serverData: {serverName: string, serverContent: string}) {
      this.serverElements.push({
        type: 'server',
        name: serverData.serverName,
        content: serverData.serverContent
      });
    }

    onBlueprintAdded(blueprintData: {serverName: string, serverContent: string}) {
      this.serverElements.push({
        type: 'blueprint',
        name: blueprintData.serverName,
        content: blueprintData.serverContent
      });
    }

  }
```

Now we have to generate the events. We'll do that in `cockpit.component.ts`. We start by declaring the two properties `serverCreated` and `blueprintCreated` and then assigning them new event emitters. First import `EventEmitter` at the top:

```TypeScript
  import { Component, OnInit, EventEmitter } from '@angular/core';

  @Component({
    selector: 'app-cockpit',
    templateUrl: './cockpit.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['./cockpit.component.css']
  })
  export class CockpitComponent implements OnInit {

    // SEE HERE !
    serverCreated = new EventEmitter<{
      serverName    : string,
      serverContent : string
    }>();
    blueprintCreated = new EventEmitter<{
      serverName    : string,
      serverContent : string
    }>();

    /* ... */

  }
```

`EventEmitter` is an object in the Angular framework which allows you to emit your own events. It is a generic type, which is indicated by the greater-than / less-than brackets `<>`. And in between you define the type of event data you're going to emit. In our case, it's an object consisting of `serverName` and `serverContent`. The `()` parens at the end call the EventEmitter's constructor, creating a new EventEmitter object. We store that object in the `serverCreated` property. We do the same form `blueprintCreated`.

Now we can write the event click handlers:

```TypeScript
  export class CockpitComponent implements OnInit {

    serverCreated = new EventEmitter<{
      serverName    : string,
      serverContent : string
    }>();
    blueprintCreated = new EventEmitter<{
      serverName    : string,
      serverContent : string
    }>();

    newServerName    = '';
    newServerContent = '';

    /* ... */

    onAddServer() {
      this.serverCreated.emit({
        serverName: this.newServerName,
        serverContent: this.newServerContent });
    }

    onAddBlueprint() {
      this.blueprintCreated.emit({
        serverName: this.newServerName,
        serverContent: this.newServerContent });
    }

  }
```

Both `onAddServer()` and `onAddBlueprint()` just call the `.emit()` method of each EventEmitter, passing in the object that the EventEmitter expects based on the event type data we defined.

The only thing left to do is add a decorator to permit 'export' of these events. We use the `@Output` decorator after importing it from `@angular/core` at the top:

```TypeScript
  export class CockpitComponent implements OnInit {

    @Output() serverCreated = new EventEmitter<{
      serverName    : string,
      serverContent : string
    }>();

    @Output() blueprintCreated = new EventEmitter<{
      serverName    : string,
      serverContent : string
    }>();
```

Just like `@Input` we can **alias** `@Output`. We do it the same way. Say we want to alias the event `bpCreated`. We have to listen for that event in `app.component.html`:

```html
  <app-cockpit
    (serverCreated)="onServerAdded($event)"
    (bpCreated)="onBlueprintAdded($event)">
  </app-cockpit>
```

And pass the alias to the `@Output()` decorator:

```TypeScript
  @Output('bpCreated') blueprintCreated = new EventEmitter<{
    serverName    : string,
    serverContent : string
  }>();
```

One issue with the above approach - if you have many components, the chains of `@Input()` and `@Output()` become incredible difficult to manage. There are some cases where the 'distance' between two components that need to talk to each other is so great that building a chain of `@Input()` and `@Output()` is impractical. We'll see a better solution to this issue later when discussing **services**.

#### Understanding Event View Encapsulation

Major difference with Angular - component CSS files/rules apply to **that component only**. This is different from normal CSS behavior, where a rules apply to all elements regardless of where they are defined. Angular gives us this encapsulation behavior.

Angular gives each component a unique attribute name dynamically. We don't need to define them. This is how Angular enforces style encapsulation.  For example, notice that each element in `server-element.component.html` has the `ngcontent-c2=""` attribute:

```html
<div _ngcontent-c2="" class="panel panel-default">
  <div _ngcontent-c2="" class="panel-heading">Test Server</div>
  <div _ngcontent-c2="" class="panel-body">
    <p _ngcontent-c2="">
      <!--bindings={ "ng-reflect-ng-if": "true" }-->
      <strong _ngcontent-c2="" style="color: red">Test Server Content</strong>
      <!--bindings={ "ng-reflect-ng-if": "false" }-->
    </p>
  </div>
</div>
```

The dynamic custom attributes bind the component's CSS to the elements in the component template. This kind of emulates the **shadow DOM**: a technology not yet supported the same way by all browsers, in which the browser includes a subtree of DOM elements into the rendering of a document, but not into the main document DOM tree. A slider is a classic example:

```html
  <input type="range">
```

That one element actually contains multiple sub-elements that we don't have immediate control over - the track, the movable slider 'knob' element, etc. This is sort of like how Angular encapsulates a whole component's DOM sub-tree with the custom property.

**You can override style encapsulation.** In a component's `.ts` file, we can add an `encapsulation` property to the decorator. Import `ViewEncapsulation` from `@angular/core` first:

```TypeScript
  import { Component, OnInit, Input, ViewEncapsulation } from '@angular/core';

  @Component({
    selector: 'app-server-element',
    templateUrl: './server-element.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['./server-element.component.css'],
    encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.SOME_METHOD
  })
```

`SOME_METHOD` above can be one of three methods:

1.  `.Emulated` - this is the default behavior. There's no need to specif this.
2.  `.None` - don't provide any template or style encapsulation. CSS styles written for this component will be applied globally.
3.  `.Native` - use the native encapsulation mechanism of the renderer. For the DOM, this means the Shadow DOM. This _should_ give the same result as `.Emulated` but only in browsers that support Shadow DOM. Which is why, in most cases, it's best to just stick to the default `.Emulated`.

#### Using Local References In Templates

A local reference gives us a way to do something with an **entire** element in a template, either using the element (or some attribute/value on the element) elsewhere in the template, or passing it to our TypeScript code.

Define a local reference with a `#` hash. For example, we don't have to use ngModel to pass data from a form to our TypeScript code. We can use a local reference instead:

```html
  <label>Server Name</label>
  <input type="text"
         class="form-control"
         #serverNameInput>  <!-- new local ref -->

  <button class="btn btn-primary"
          (click)="onAddServer(serverNameInput)">Add Server
  </button>

```

Note that once `#serverNameInput` is defined, we pass it as an argument to the click event binding (omit the hash). Then we can access it in our TypeScript file (`HTMLInputElement` is its 'type'):

```TypeScript
  onAddServer(nameInput: HTMLInputElement) { // receive the local ref
    this.serverCreated.emit({
      serverName    : nameInput.value,       // do something with its value
      serverContent : this.newServerContent });
  }
```

#### Getting Access to the Template and DOM with @ViewChild

In addition to local references, there's another way of getting access to any element directly from within our TypeScript code. We previously accessed DOM elements through a method call from the template. Sometimes you need to access the DOM before (or instead of) using methods. There's a nice TypeScript decorator that lets us do this: `@ViewChild`.

We still start with defining a local ref in the template:

```html
  <label>Server Content</label>
  <input type="text"
         class="form-control"
         #serverContentInput>  <!-- local ref -->
```

And we access it purely in the TypeScript. Import `ViewChild` and `ElementRef` first. `ViewChild` is the decorator; `ElementRef` is an Angular-definied type. Example:

```TypeScript
  import { Component, OnInit, EventEmitter, Output, ViewChild, ElementRef } from '@angular/core';

  /* ... snip ... */

  export class CockpitComponent implements OnInit {

    /* ... snip ... */

    /* This decorator binds the 'serverContentInput' local ref to a
       new property 'serverContentInput', which is of type 'ElementRef'
    */
    @ViewChild('serverContentInput') serverContentInput: ElementRef;

    /* Then we can use properties of 'serverContentInput' in our methods.
       Below we access 'value' through serverContentInput's 'nativeElement'
       property.
    */
    onAddServer(nameInput: HTMLInputElement) {
      console.log(this.serverContentInput);
      this.serverCreated.emit({
        serverName    : nameInput.value,
        serverContent : this.serverContentInput.nativeElement.value });
    }
```

**Recap** we can access DOM elements and their properties two ways: by passing local references to bound methods, or using @ViewChild.

### Projecting Content Into Components with ng-content

So far we've learned how to pass data around, how to access elements in our DOM, how to use local references - we have many tools to enable the difference pieces of our application to interact with each other.

There is one more way we can pass data around.

Sometimes you have complex html code that you want to pass into a component from outside. For example, imaging you start with this:

```html
  <div class="panel panel-default">
    <div class="panel-heading">{{ element.name }}</div>
    <div class="panel-body">
      <p>
        <strong *ngIf="element.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ element.content }}</strong>
        <em *ngIf="element.type === 'blueprint'">{{ element.content }}</em>
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
```

And you want to instead pass in the whole '<p>' with everything inside it:

```html
  <p>
    <strong *ngIf="element.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ element.content }}</strong>
    <em *ngIf="element.type === 'blueprint'">{{ element.content }}</em>
  </p>
```

You want to pass that in from the component's parent component:

```html
  <div class="container">
    <app-cockpit
      (serverCreated)="onServerAdded($event)"
      (bpCreated)="onBlueprintAdded($event)">
    </app-cockpit>
    <hr>
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-xs-12">
        <app-server-element
          *ngFor="let serverElement of serverElements"
          [srvElement]="serverElement">

          <p>
            <strong *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ serverElement.content }}</strong>
            <em *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'blueprint'">{{ serverElement.content }}</em>
          </p>

        </app-server-element>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
```

You might think that all you need to do is replace instances of `emelent` with `serverElement` - but it silently breaks. We acn fix this using a special directive (it looks like a component but it doesn't have its own template): `ng-content`.

In the place where we want to render the content, we add a 'hook' to mark the place where angular should add any content it finds between the component's opening and closing tags in the parent element (so in between `app-server-element`).

```html
  <div class="panel panel-default">
    <div class="panel-heading">{{ element.name }}</div>
    <div class="panel-body">

      <ng-content></ng-content>

    </div>
  </div>
```

The parent's HTML code is _projected_ into the child component. Everything between:

```html
<app-server-element>
  <!-- all content in here -->
</app-server-element>
```

Is _projected_ into the `app-server-element` where Angular finds the `ng-content` directive.

#### Understanding the Component Lifecycle

Looking at a component's TypeScript, what's up with `ngOnInit`? The CLI creates it, what's it doing?

Lifecycle
1.  When Angular sees one of our component selectors, it instantiates that component and places it into the DOM.
2.  Once a new component is instantiated, Angular goes through a few phases in creation process.
3.  We can hook into the phases using some methods:
    1.  `ngOnChanges` - executed right at the start and whenever a bound input property (`@Input`) changes.
    2.  `ngOnInit` - Called once the component is initialized, after the constructor.
    3.  `ngDoCheck` - called during every change detection run.
    4.  `ngAfterContentInit` - called after content (`ng-content`) has been projected into the view.
    5.  `ngAfterContentChecked` - Called every time the projected content has been checked
    6.  `ngAfterViewInit` - is then called after the component's view (and any child views) has been initialized
    7.  `ngAfterViewCheck` - called every time the view (and child viwes) have been checked.
    8.  `ngOnDestroy` - finally, if your `ngIf` is 'false', removing it from the DOM, ngOnDestroy is called. Called right before Angular kills the actual object, giving you opportunity to do some cleanup if needed.

#### Seeing Lifecycle Hooks in applications

Jesus, he goes through them all in 13 minutes.

#### Lifecycle Hooks and Template Access

Create three new components: GameControl, Odd, Even
